.\" This file is part of si53xx, see <https://qu1x.org/si53xx>.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Rouven Spreckels <n3vu0r@qu1x.org>
.\" 
.\" si53xx is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License version 3
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation on 19 November 2007.
.\" 
.\" si53xx is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with si53xx. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses>.
.\"
.TH si53xx\-cmp 1 "March 8, 2016" "si53xx\-1.0.0" "si53xx"
.SH NAME
si53xx\-cmp \- si53xx transition map generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B si53xx\-cmp
[\fIOLD\fR \fINEW\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compare each \fINEW\fR .map file to the one \fIOLD\fR .map file and generate
corresponding .pos/.neg transition map files containing positive and negative
differences only, respectively.
.PP
A .pos/.neg file contains only the subset of registers necessary to get from the
one \fIOLD\fR state to a certain \fINEW\fR state or to revoke it, respectively.
.PP
Since a read\-modify\-write procedure against a mask for each register is
performed just in case the mask is not \fBff\fR, various .pos/.neg files might
share common registers with different values  without interference as long as
the features they describe are bitwise orthogonal.
.PP
With no files, print help.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All went fine.
.PP
Errors within the user\-defined range from \fB64\fR to \fB113\fR:
.TP
.B 64
\fIOLD\fR is not a .map file.
.TP
.B 65
Cannot read \fIOLD\fR file.
.TP
.B 66
Cannot read \fINEW\fR file.
.TP
.B 67
Cannot write .pos file.
.TP
.B 68
Cannot write .neg file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
.B si53xx\-cmp 25MHz.map 50MHz.map 100MHz.map
Compare each, 50MHz.map and 100MHz.map, against 25MHz.map and generate
50MHz.pos and 50MHz.neg, and 100MHz.pos and 100MHz.neg files. 50MHz.pos and
100MHz.pos will generate an output clock of either 50 MHz or 100 MHz,
respectively. Both, 50MHz.neg and 100MHz.neg, switch back to the initial 25 MHz
clock. In this scenario there is no difference between both .neg files.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2016 Rouven Spreckels <n3vu0r@qu1x.org>
.PP
si53xx is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License version 3
as published by the Free Software Foundation on 19 November 2007.
.PP
si53xx is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with si53xx. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses>.
.SH WEBSITE
<https://qu1x.org/si53xx>
.SH AUTHORS
Rouven Spreckels <n3vu0r@qu1x.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.B si53xx(1) si53xx\-map(1)
